---
title:  "Release v0.5.2  of Prompt Sail "
last_modified_at: 2024-07-04T16:00:58
tags: 
    - ""
    - "prompt-sail" 
    - "llm-api-proxy"
category: 
    - Project Updates
toc: false
toc_label: "Unique Title"
toc_icon: "heart"
---



## ⛵ Release v0.5.2  of Prompt Sail 

Ahoy, LLM Sailors! 🌊👋

We're wanted to announce the release of Prompt Sail v0.5.2! 

This version is now available on our GitHub: [Prompt Sail v0.5.2](https://github.com/PromptSail/prompt_sail/releases/tag/v0.5.2)


You can test the latest version of Prompt Sail by pulling the Docker image with the tag `v0.5.2` from the Github container registry.    

```
docker pull ghcr.io/promptsail/promptsail-ui:v0.5.2
docker pull ghcr.io/promptsail/promptsail-backend:v0.5.2

```
Want to try it out? Check out the [Quick Start Guide](/docs/quick-start-guide/) to get started.



### Here's what's new on deck:

#### Backend Enhancements:

* Handling of Multi-modal Data: Added support for Azure multi-modal data handling, including saving images from DALL-E and handling text-image combined messages.
* SSO and Authorization: Implemented simple custom authorization via bearer for handling OIDC and multiple fixes and enhancements in SSO configuration and error handling.
* Transaction and Project Management:
    * Added new endpoints and updated existing ones for better transaction management.
    * Fixed issues with transaction and project details including proxy URL configurations.
* Performance and Optimization:
    * Improved the functionality for streaming responses and handling of environment variables.
    * Optimized image resizing for storage and handling within the database.
* Error Handling: Fixed a variety of errors including a 500 error on PUT method for project configurations and login issues.

#### Frontend Enhancements:

* UI Improvements:
    * Enhanced several pages including the login, home, and organization dashboard pages.
    * Added and updated various UI elements like submit buttons, tooltips, and loading animations.
* Documentation and Navigation:
    * Updated navigation structures and added detailed descriptions to the project dashboard.
    * Improved the documentation for supported models and transaction handling.
* Error Pages and Styling Fixes:
    * Implemented custom 404 and 500 error pages.
    * Numerous small fixes including avatar fixes in filters, interceptor adjustments, and UI style consistency.

#### Configuration and Deployment:

* Updated project dependencies including a significant update to Langchain and integration of new libraries.
* Rethought Docker build strategies to support environment variations.
* Fixed issues related to the documentation build and updated the deployment cookbook.


#### Documentation and models support:

* Add User UI documentation for the project dashboard, organization dashboard, and transaction details.
* Updated the documentation for [supported models](/docs/supported-gen-ai-models) 
* add [REST API documentation for the backend API endpoints](/docs/backend-rest-api).
* new [examples in form of juptyer notebooks](https://github.com/PromptSail/prompt_sail/tree/main/examples) for Groq, DALL-E, gpt-4o multimodal, Anthropic. Provided examples are in native libraries and with langchain. 

## Contribute to Prompt Sail 🤝

Help us build the best tracking LLM tool out there. Your contributions to the project are welcome and appreciated. Let's make LLM deployment as smooth as sailing! 💨

Happy sailing! ⚓️😊


